---
layout: post
title:  "Just Knowing How to Code Won’t Get You a Job."
date:   2018-07-14
categories: thoughts
written_at: Brooklyn, NY
---

I am a big believer that a Bachelor's Degree is unnecessary to start a successful career as a web developer. However, without a degree, it is an uphill battle to market yourself to employers, especially to get your very first job. 

**Influence**

My resume had no degree or relevant work experience, I had just decided I couldn't afford to go to my dream college

I applied to one-hundred and twenty jobs in August 2015. On September 7th, after a month of fourteen hour days of applying to jobs and improving my portfolio, I finally got the job offer.

I iterated through a lot of different way to present myself.

The job application process values stories, not skills

Everything from a GitHub page to a blog full of projects can count as a portfolio. This ambiguity can be a wonderful tool to break out of the hard mold that résumé’s force on you, especially when you don’t have a degree. No hiring manager will hire someone with no work experience and a bad résumé. In this video I will discuss exactly how to make a good résumé.

**The first rule of marketing**

The whole process of sending out applications is really just marketing yourself. As you probably know, the first advice any marketer will give you is to have a well-defined niche to target. Amazon started with books,  ++TODO: COME UP WITH EXAMPLES++ and you need to start somewhere too.



**Know what jobs to apply for**

- Know what you’re applying for
	- This is a career, you’re not going to start at the top, but you also shouldn’t sell yourself short.
	- Look for jobs that both specify Junior/Entry Level and have salaries of at least $45K (Depending on your area). You’ve probably seen people promising 100K salaries right away. Sadly, that is not real life. Work your way up from starter jobs. The easiest way to break into the industry is to search specifically for job ads that require HTML/CSS skills. You will likely do some marketing help with this job, but it will be a great place to grow as a baby developer.
- Know what they’re looking for
	- A little known trick that I’m surprised isn’t common advice is that there is a way to know exactly what employers are looking for. Just read the job ad! They have a list of skills that they want you to know. If you haven’t completed a project involving 80% of the requirements of most of the job ads that apply to you (again, entry level) you need to create a project with them. Walking through a tutorial on React does not mean you have any experience with react.
- Know which projects make good projects
	- You don’t want to create the next todo app, hiring managers see a million of these and they don’t show any personality.
	- Projects in your portfolio is the one place you can color outside the lines of a rigid resume.
	- People will want to hire you if you’re likable
	- People will want to hire you if you’re creative
	- Solve a problem
	- Do something weird cause you think it’s cool
	- People naturally are compelled by stories, tell one, don’t just give a link to a github page
	- Quality over quantity
